how long does it take to get page one of
google
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100
marketing podcast business growth show
if you haven't yet sign up to our weekly
email where you'll get actionable
marketing tips useful podcasts free
guides bonus resources and much much
more every monday to start your week off
with a bang sign up over at
businessgrowth.edu
so seo search engine optimization the
process of getting your website to that
all-important page one top spot in
google's organic non-page search results
so when someone searches for a service
or a product you appear right at the top
so they click through to your website
all to increase your website traffic
brand visibility and your leads and your
sales revenue
so how long does it really take
well
the short answer is it depends that's
probably not what you want to hear but
it really depends on the business you're
in the competitiveness of your industry
and many other factors
so let's say for example
you serve a really small niche industry
perhaps you run a bike store for example
and perhaps you just serve a local town
or city so let's say for example we are
in a small town called yeovil in the uk
so let's say you wanted to rank for bike
store yeovil chances are there's
probably not that many competitors
because i know for a fact there's only
one or two bike stores in the whole town
so it's not going to be that difficult
to actually get your site ranking on
page one because there's not a whole ton
of competition it's quite a niche
offering
so to be fair all you probably need to
do is some decent keyword research
identify using tools like semrush ahrefs
ubersuggest google keyword planner what
people are actually searching for for
those services so whether it's like
yeovil bike store or best bike shop in
yeovil identify what those buying search
terms are understand the ones you want
to target and then make sure your
website addresses that so doing things
like adding a key information page on
your website for each of the main bike
services you have having a location
detail page for all the towns or cities
that you serve and then making sure
those website pages are really
informative they cover the key points
people want to know perhaps they've got
videos podcasts infographics they answer
key questions people may have with faqs
they overcome objections and then guide
people to get in touch and as well as
that
making sure your website has a mobile
friendly or mobile first design making
sure it has a smooth user experience
with solid navigation and making sure
your metadata is sorted so things like
your meta title and description that
shows in the google organic listings
when people do a search making sure your
page titles heading tags all up to
scratch and doing all that content work
is probably almost going to be enough if
you're in a very very niche not
competitive industry to actually get
your website ranking
so it could just take a few weeks or
even a couple months if you are in a
small niche not very competitive
industry or on the flip side if you do
serve a competitive industry and perhaps
you're looking to rank nationally or
even in several different countries and
perhaps you've got a lot of competition
you could be talking several months even
a year or longer to get ranking so for
example let's say you run a software as
a service business maybe you run a spend
management solution that helps companies
manage their finances to pay their staff
perhaps to pay suppliers vendors and
much much more so you want to rank for
really competitive terms like spend
spend management crm or spend management
software or how to reduce or spend
management fees those kind of things
so
just doing the above things that i
talked about for small niches isn't
going to work yes you need to do that so
you need to do your keyword research you
need to get your website technically
sound in terms of your metadata
structure ux user experience your mobile
design your navigation and get your
content in shape and make sure your
website is a useful resource but you're
also going to need to do off-site seo so
you need to do things like publish
regular articles and press releases on
industry relevant sites so you can
really boost up your domain authority
because you're putting really helpful
articles you're building backlinks from
these articles you're telling sending
signals to google that you've got an
authoritative site that's linking back
to you you're building up your own link
juice building up your domain authority
so over time you're pushing up your
organic rankings for when people search
for these search terms you want to be
found for is this quick no but if you
follow best practices we've talked about
in terms of on-site work and in terms of
off-site work creating regular pieces of
really informative content getting them
published on industry relevant sites
building up quality backlinks for the
search terms you want to be found for
measuring results
keeping up to date with the google
algorithm and trends and making sure you
follow best practices and you are
aggressive in your content creation
distribution bank backlink strategy that
can really help put you in a good
position to start ranking for
competitive search terms in competitive
industries so you've got to think about
not just making your website great but
making it the go-to resource for your
sector so if someone thinks
a certain question industry they think
yeah this site's the one i want to go to
so you're really providing them
educational material across perhaps blog
articles across guides across
infographics podcasts videos much much
more you're getting your site on site
very very solid and you're doing all
those things i've talked about in terms
of offsite seo distributing content
building backlinks and over time getting
your organic rankings up there so in six
months a year's time depending on how
competitive it is you can enjoy the
long-term benefits of seo ramping up
your traffic brand visibility and
credibility your inbound leads and your
inbound sales revenue and there you go i
hope this short and snappy summary has
given you an insight as to how long it
can take your website to get ranking
page one in google's organic search
results as i say it really does depend
and vary depending on the sector you are
the locations or search terms you're
targeting and how competitive your
industry is making sure you do that
solid research up front positioning your
website as a really useful resource and
then being proactive on content creation
building quality links is really going
to help you and also reporting and
planning for the future is really
crucial to get your strategy right as
always if you enjoyed today's episode a
quick subscribe on youtube or a rating
on the audio podcast channels would be
much appreciated and with that i look
forward to catching you on the next one
cheers